A US defense official
says that the US had to shoot down
two attack drones
that were targeting U.S.
forces in Iraq.
There were no injuries there
and it is not clear
who exactly launched the drones.
But such attacks,
they say, are frequently attributed
to Iran
or Iranian
backed militants in the region.
The news comes, of course,
as American
embassies
have been facing protests
in a number of Middle
East countries
because of the war in Gaza.
Right now
in Beirut,
the capital of Lebanon,
hundreds of protesters
are gathered in the streets
as they were overnight.
This is video I think, of overnight.
They tried to break through
security barriers near the U.S.
embassy.
And these are live. Okay.
So I can't it's
difficult for me to see where
I'm from, my vantage point.
But, yes,
these are live pictures
happening right now.
You see lots of smoke.
You see people in the streets.
They are clearly, clearly terribly upset
about what is happening
next door to Lebanon.
In Gaza in particular,
you can hear the chants,
hundreds of people.
Let's
bring in CNN's Ben Wedeman,
who is in south Lebanon live for us.
Ben, can you just give us a sense
of what you've been seeing on the ground
and what you've been hearing
from from your sources
about these protests?
Well, we're hearing some
large explosions
just to the south of here
near the border with Israel.
But these protests
are very much reflective of
many people in Lebanon, particularly.
It's been simmering
since the 7th of October,
but particularly
since that strike on the hospital in Gaza
yesterday.
Last night, we saw protests outside
the US embassy.
It's north of Beirut.
It's actually not in Beirut.
It's about eight miles north of Beirut.
And of course, again,
we're seeing it today
with protesters
throwing rocks
and shooting fireworks
at the Lebanese police.
Police
responding with water cannons
and lots and lots of tear gas.
It's important to keep in mind
that behind
those barriers, it's
about half a mile up the hill to the US
embassy itself.
There's another explosion
and this embassy is highly fortified.
The staff
are allowed to simply walk out the door
and enjoy the pleasures of Beirut
because of security concerns.
Now, speaking of the embassy,
the State Department has said that
the families of US embassy staff members
and non-emergency
personnel are now authorized
to leave the country
should they so desire on a case
by case basis.
The United States has also advised
Americans not to travel to Lebanon,
and we're seeing a similar advisory
coming out of France as well.
Now, regarding the situation
in south Lebanon.
And we've had two strikes
by Hezbollah on Israeli positions.
Hezbollah puts out
videos of these strikes,
and it appears that, among other things,
they have struck a tank.
Overnight,
we heard a fair amount of explosions.
There's another one in the distance.
I don't know if you can pick that up,
but certainly reflective of the ongoing
tensions here on the border
between Lebanon and Israel. Sara?
Ben, you
have been in this region
for a very long time.
And just to get your sense of things,
for example, during the second intifada,
what things look like in places
like Beirut
and in places
like Jordan in comparison
to what we are seeing now,
because Jordan also has a huge number
of Palestinians that live in Jordan
and that have reacted in a very big way
to what has happened in Gaza.
All of these protests coming,
of course, after a hospital was struck
by someone.
We do not know who at this point in time,
we have not independently confirmed
any of it, but Israel blaming
Islamic Jihad
and, of course, Hamas blaming
Israeli airstrikes.
Can you give us some sense
of just context
of what we're seeing now
in neighboring countries to Israel?
You?
Well, what we're seeing is
where it's boiling over
the anger
that people have been watching
very closely, intensely,
what's going on in Gaza.
There's been scattered protests,
but certainly yesterday
I think that anger boiled over.
It boiled over in Amman,
where protesters
went to the Israeli embassy,
set fires around it, tried to get in,
but were pushed back by Jordanian police.
In Ramallah, Ramallah
is a particularly important city place.
It's essentially
the capital
of the Palestinian Authority there.
We saw
protesters clashing
with Palestinian security forces.
The protesters were calling
were condemning
what is happening in Gaza.
But in addition to that,
they were calling for
the downfall of Mahmoud Abbas,
the 87 year
old president
of the Palestinian Authority,
who many Palestinians see as ineffectual.
He's been passive
during this current war.
He doesn't seem to have any sway
with the Israelis
who don't respect the system of of zones,
the areas that exist in the West
Bank, where
in theory,
the Palestinian Authority
is supposed to be in control.
But the Israeli security forces
go in as they
please without any coordination
with the Palestinians.
In short,
it's a very shaky regime in the West Bank
and much of the anger,
in addition to being directed
at Israel, is directed at what is seen
as a corrupt and ineffectual
Palestinian Authority. Sara,
really good reporting,
really good contacts.
Thank you so much, Ben Wedeman,
for being there on the ground.
Are you still hearing some munitions,
it sounds like, behind you
are scattered.
Yes.
But at this very moment, no matter.
Okay.
All right.
Keeping
you and your crew
as safe as possible
in these difficult conditions.
Thank you, Ben.
Kate, I'm
going to go ahead and
send it back to you.
I just want to mention
we are watching these live pictures
of an extraordinary number of people
who have come out to the streets.
This is in Beirut.
We are watching this live.
People reacting,
so upset to see what has happened,
particularly in the hospital
strike that has,
according to Hamas,
killed hundreds of people,
including obviously
patients, men, women and children.